---
tags:
  - career
---
https://copyconstruct.medium.com/know-how-your-org-works-or-how-to-become-a-more-effective-engineer-1a3287d1f58d

 **know how your org works (or how to become a more effective engineer)**
 *by Cindy Sridharan*

**“Many engineers find it far easier to label things that don’t go their way as “politics”, as opposed to introspecting and learning the hard skills required to make better judgements. “Politics” doesn’t necessarily have to be a negative thing per se, and I suspect the near ubiquitous negative connotations attached to “politics” can be attributed to the fact that a lot of engineers aren’t the most astute when it comes to navigating these nuances. “**

Struck me for a few reasons:

1. I have absolutely thought this way and I absolutely don't have much skill in navigating organizational politics. Something to work on
2. Resonated with a skeet from Julia Evans I saw earlier today  https://bsky.app/profile/b0rk.jvns.ca/post/3lgnpepflf22e : "this is gonna be a weird meta post but posting about why htmx isn't working for me yesterday made me think about how when I don't _like_ a programming thing, often it means there are some _skills_ I'm missing" This theme, or cognitive bias? of the root cause of dislike being lack of skill, which, as Julia notes, feels difficult to announce. Feels like a bias worth keeping an eye on, for myself and others. I imagine so many arguments about tooling preferences in software boil down to skill and familiarity; which are fine justifications! But ones rarely explicitly acknowledged. I suppose because those reasons feel less... powerful? legitimate? than a strongly held opinion? Curious 