---
source: https://joshcollinsworth.com/blog/antiquated-react
author: Josh Collinsworth
---
Having picked up Astro as my go-to framework for personal work in the last year, after working exclusively in React for frontend work at my job for the past 8 years or so, this generally resonated with me. Not every idea, specifically, but the general point that I've become blind to React's constraints and deficiencies having used it so long. Astro, while having its own quirks and frustrations, has been a breath of fresh air with its flexibility and simplicity: it outputs HTML first. That's the mental model. I find myself leaning on the web platform first, opting for libraries or other abstractions second. Granted, my personal work has been very light on interactivity, mostly static content, more in Astro's wheelhouse. And, because Astro supports integrating other UI frameworks, I've still used React for places demanding more complicated interactivity e.g. a set of charts. And I still do like React! I'm sure part, even most, of my reaction here is due to the newness of Astro, contrasting with my experience with React, giving me more to think about, rather than highlighting specific gripes I had with React.

I dunno, my thoughts aren't as together here as I'd like. Short of it: in React, I think about React; in Astro, I think about the web. React feels infecting, in a way; billed as just a library, in my experience it's rarely one tool of many, but rather a choice that dictates your frontend's architecture. Which has some upsides, especially for DX, but I think I've learned to ignore how often React feels like overkill. That said, I haven't played around with RSC, curious how they change my feelings here, if at all.